Pioneers have always
been met with ridicule.
Pasteur. Lister.
Those gentlemen were scientists.
As am I.
They tested observable phenomena.
And let me see.
Y-your thesis is that
"voices of the dead
can be heard through the new
London telephone network".
Do I have that right, Mr. Hague?
- Dr. Hague!
- But, may I ask
how many of these voices you yourself
have discerned through
the static interference?
No?
Mummy not rung lately?
We are not without
sympathy for your loss.
My own dear mother
passed away just a year ago.
- But, even so...
- We are to officially inform you
that as of this moment,
you are no longer a member
of Her Majesty's Royal Medical Society.
Struck off.
Wasn't that our telephone?
Hello?
I have been so patient.
Won't you grant me a... a little grace?
Just a whisper.
Just a song.
We always loved our songs.
Hello?
Mother.
Put it out.
Why does Amalia always
get the glamorous job?
Another silver tooth.
Ooh!
Annie Carbey! We're not common thieves.
Are you sure it's even this place?
I...
It's only pauper's pit
on this side of the city.
Where else are they going
to put someone like him?
Dump him in the river!
I am done. Need some sleep.
Sometimes, when I'm
digging these graves, I think
maybe I'll just slide
in underneath a box.
That's nice. Tell me more.
Fuckin' finally.
Got him.
... drilled straight
through the bloody floor.
Sergeant told Briggsy Maladie sent them.
Told you.
They was trying to pull
the fucking building down!
Brass. Look sharp.
Can you direct me
to the women's barracks?
Or am I a little early for those?
I just don't understand
why she did it...
There'll be an investigation,
so y-you can't take anything.
This is them.
The Touched.
This is their revenge for Maladie.
- No.
- They won't stop
until they've shook London
into the ground.
She's got no one now,
and you lot do nothing!
So, we know the last place
Maladie was seen.
At her own hanging.
We know how she was dressed.
As Miss Effie Boyle.
Also deceased.
- According to your research.
- I'd take a wager,
the Colonel's still with her.
We can offer a reward.
S-someone must have
seen them on the streets.
I've had Whitehall in my ear all morning
about our mismanagement of the hanging.
Remind me, who was the officer
in charge of that again?
I'll just call them up, should I?
Tell him you went and hung
the wrong bloody woman?
She wasn't even Touched?
- It's the truth.
- No one wants to hear it.
But, you can't...
No.
If you won't tell
the public about Maladie...
What are you gonna do,
go down Fleet Street?
You set one yellow toe in the direction
of those newspaper maggots, Mundi,
and I will personally make
sure that every last cop
of this side of Hadrian's fucking Wall
knows what kind of man you are.
The company you search out after dark.
All your gentlemen friends.
I like to do my research and all.
It's good to know
who you're working with.
But there'll be no more
special privileges on my watch.
You try and push through on this,
be five years hard labor
and public disgrace.
I don't think many people
would be interested
in your little story then, will they?
Not the best place for your sort.
Prison.
So,
I'll just relieve you
of these, should I?
I'm taking you off the Touched detail.
Putting you out on the beat.
World's gone mad.
- Mrs. True.
- Ms. Adair.
You did it.
We did it. How was the recon?
They've no idea what
we were doing there,
but they've tripled their
numbers since yesterday.
Grand Abbey's the same.
It wasn't your fault Maladie
didn't want to be saved.
It was the graveyard,
you know? It just, uh...
It made me think of her soul,
wandering through the streets
of London for eternity.
And all those poor people,
just electrocuted.
They did come to watch her hang.
- Harriet said some of them brought picnics.
- But you would have thought
that if anyone could have
spotted those power lines,
it should have been me.
She ran them through here.
Look. It's so obvious.
Stop going over it.
Is that how you dealt with it
when you were a soldier?
All the death, you just,
you stopped thinking about it?
I had a job to do.
Shall we make a start on our man?
You were going to have
that meeting first.
You know, the meeting
where you tell everyone
about the future and the Galanthi
and what's actually going on?
- There's no time.
- Amalia...
I've lived through this before,
remember?
Earthquakes are just the starting gun.
It's a matter of days
before the Galanthi emerges.
Well then, you've an hour
to spare now, haven't you?
We have to be down there
with it when it happens
in case it needs protection.
Or transport or...
I don't fucking know
what it'll need. A map?
- A ship?
- Well, whatever it needs, this lot can help.
- You owe them the truth.
- We can't do this by committee!
You know what it'll be like.
Herding bloody cats!
No one can agree on anything!
I'm sorry, it's just so much easier
to get on with things
when it's you and me.
- Following your mission.
- Yes!
We have the body
of that thing right here.
It could be the answer
to who's down there.
Come on, then. Let's make that start.
Thank you.
Amalia's the spirit of
a soldier from the future
in the body of a drowned baker,
and she's come here
to tell you all about
an alien under London
who gave you all your magical powers.
Hmm?
Got you off to a bit of a start.
Right.
... came out of that cave
with a clear mission
to help the Galanthi
and be ready to defend it.
Well, thank you for your time.
Penance and I have some urgent...
Sorry, what did it tell you?
Galanthi don't really speak.
More like... show you
things in your mind.
Okay, so what things
did this one show you?
Just fragments. Nothing coherent.
But I thought it sang. Mary's song.
That's what Myrtle translated.
So, if I've got this
right, the Galanthi uses
its psychic tentacles
to suck out your brain.
Not that kind of alien.
- Can you prove you're from the future?
- How would I do that?
You could... tell us what's
gonna happen tomorrow.
- Uh...
- Next week?
The Queen dies quite soon.
But I haven't had my formal debut!
Forget it. Doesn't die.
I mean, does die.
- Everyone dies.
- But you didn't, apparently.
So what's the plan?
I mean, I know there
must be a plan, right?
Because the thing you just had us do...
Look, yesterday we went down
to the cave, some of us, anyway,
and it was a shit show.
I only just escaped
those human-robot things.
- "Shock troops".
- Oh! Th-that is a good one.
If we go back in blind,
we'll be slaughtered.
Or worse. There are Touched down there
more like the living dead than people.
Whoever's running
this operation hates us
as much as they do the Galanthi.
And as for the...
shock troops, yes,
that part of the plan
is already underway.
And no idea who these people could be?
Might even be someone from the future.
Hitched a ride like me.
Is that what the Galanthi showed you?
Like I said, not particularly coherent.
Anyway, Penance will work on weapons.
No, not weapons.
Nonviolent objects
of confusion and defense.
And I will continue drawing
up our rescue strategy.
You do have resources here, you know.
What will the alien do when it come out?
What it was supposed to do
in the first place.
- Unite humanity.
- Oh. That sounds nice and easy.
Look, best-case scenario,
it's going to save the world.
Which world?
You said "save the world".
That's right.
Because I don't know about any future,
but the world outside this place...
- is on fire.
- You said "best-case scenario". What's worst case?
It tears the world apart and we all die.
George!
Hey!
What's going on?
- I don't know.
- What happened?
Was it, was it a rippling?
PiTSiD. Flashbacks.
I thought they stopped when
you came here. Didn't...
Didn't everything go forward instead?
Clearly not.
Anyway, it wasn't the same as before.
Look, I'll sort myself out.
All on your own. Just like always, huh?
Amalia.
Stop. Stop.
Look at me.
I've worked with soldiers
before. Look at me.
Battle exhaustion doesn't
go away by ignoring it.
In my experience, and that's
exactly how it goes away.
I know what I need.
- No, you know what you want.
- Same thing as you.
You have no idea what I want.
Oh. Sorry to interrupt.
Look, I've done the fucking meeting.
Now, can we please start?
Oh, fuck.
Uh, tidy up in there, will you?
The... things and the people.
No! Not that 16th century fucking Delft!
Jesus, Augie.
Hugo, this place is an absolute state.
Lucky that I'm here to help them do...
No, I-I prefer not to look
at it when it does that.
Thank you very much. Bloody river.
Well, someone's got to sort it out,
since I... since I very much doubt
you've actually removed
my name from those papers.
Don't worry your pretty
little head about all that.
Very much in the process.
Augie, Jesus. Is that a...
- Is that a bleeding ear?
- And a fractured rib.
Have you been...
fighting?
Who? What? When?
Tell me everything!
Actually, um, that is why I'm here.
I, um...
I do need to tell you something.
And I... I'm only...
I'm only telling you because...
really, you're my, you're
my best friend, and...
So...
Augie, have you met somebody?
Well, y-yes, actually.
I suppose, I suppose that is part of it.
- Who is it?
- I wouldn't want to say.
Oh, a secret liaison. How delicious.
But you, uh, clearly need some advice,
so what went wrong?
- Well, um...
- Well, I know what I would say.
- Yes, please.
- Well, I would say...
"Lady-woman. I am Augustus Bidlow".
- Yes.
- "I am a man in my own right.
A man with a, with a, a bleeding ear
and a fractured rib. A fighting man".
- Yes.
- "Independent, brave.
Choosing whichever path to
adventure I damn well want!"
Fuck.
Of course, you mustn't say any of that.
Oh. Oh, yes. No.
No, Aug, you just be
your real, charming,
awkward self.
Who on Earth could resist it?
Well, th-th-that's just it. Hugo...
Listen. My real self... I...
Oh f...
Will someone please do something
about these fucking tremors?!
There must be some sort
of minister or something.
Somehow, I struggle to see
the cream of London society...
... trooping out to
the Saturnalia Ball...
... just to be dripped on next
to a fucking chamber pot!
A-a-a ball? No! No.
Hugo, I-I really... I really
don't think now's the time.
And actually, as the...
the official proprietor...
If yesterday's grotesque events
have taught me anything,
it is that London needs a fucking party!
So, if it's alright with you, Augie,
I intend to throw a festival
so extraordinary,
so transcendent,
it will pass into legend.
And all this ghastliness
will be obliterated. Erased!
Hugo...
You do realize that the Ferryman's
is just a sex club for rich people.
It is not just a sex club!
It is a fucking phenomenon!
Mrs. Beechum should've told you
this door is to remain closed.
I'm sorry, my Lord,
I-I didn't intend to...
Apologies for the maid. First day.
Funny time to go shooting,
with all of London up in arms.
Nice bit of pheasant
you brought back, though.
Tell Roberts to take that
horse to the lower field.
Ms. Lily's horse? Always
been a spirited creature.
I think it can sense the tremors.
If I was a superstitious woman,
I'd say they were a sign of something.
Messages from the heavens?
I'd have thought by now
you would have realized
that if there is a God,
he's an Englishman.
He has no interest
in declaring his intentions.
You'll come back fighting.
You're the fuckin' Ape, mate.
Three-time champion of Limehouse.
Since when do you ever
throw in the towel, hm?
We've got a bit of fire!
Oh, fucking opportunists.
Come on.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
What did you see?
Oi!
What are you scribbling away for?
"Nimble Jack's Tales of the Touched".
Newspaper men gonna be giving
their eye teeth for these.
The city's on fire, and
you're spinning stories.
Someone should.
Only role model for a Touched
kid on the street is Maladie.
I'd rather they had a fire-wielding
Amazonian princess.
Is that where you think
my family's from?
Why would she kill herself,
though? Maladie.
And all those people she took with her.
Was it 'cause, what,
they were hypocrites? Or...
Or why did you work for her?
Let's start with that.
Well...
there was the money.
- No.
- I don't know. She...
She just had something about her.
- But?
- End of the day,
we're all just puppets
for her, you know?
Wind-up toys with a turn.
Not my kind of leader.
Is that what you came
here for, then? A leader?
Don't strike me as the following type.
I'm just passing through.
Never like to stay anywhere for long.
Who could do this, that's
what I want to know.
Look at him. It's time that's
been taken, the design.
I just hope the artist left
some kind of signature.
Could be the first step
towards whoever's got
the Galanthi under armed guard.
Jimmy here can get some justice
for what was done to him.
Jimmy?
Uh... After my Uncle Jim.
- What happened to him?
- No, nothing.
Just miss him, so...
How did they replace
his nervous system like that?
Could it be electrical then?
Or how would they store up enough charge
to make them last so long?
Nice to see you enjoying your work.
Oh, no, no.
It is horrible. I just...
I've never seen this
kind of science before.
This isn't science. This is evil.
What's that?
- What was that connected to?
- Nothing.
Not the nerves, not the wiring.
It looks like some sort of a casing.
What's that there?
It's a stamp.
Huh.
These are letters.
Chinese.
Tam. Pennyfield clockmaker.
You need to come with us.
Lot of trouble in Limehouse these days.
We're all ready for trouble,
Mrs. True and I.
Please, Su Ping, I only speak a few
words of Chinese. And badly.
I know.
Myrtle, no.
It's too restless in the city
today. No one's to go out.
No children are allowed to go.
Back you go.
Incoming!
Amalia?
Oh, no. We'll be walking targets
out there wearing those.
Um...
Uh, Mrs. True and I are...
we're on a bit of a mission, so...
I-I'm game.
Um, a-about that,
with the, uh, the cave a-and...
I wanted to apologize, I suppose.
And also... also n-not
apologize, actually.
'Cause I'm a... I'm my own man.
I'm... I'm a fighter.
And I'm a, um...
I just... I'm gonna
pollom... follup... pollum...
I'm gonna follow my own path,
whatever way that takes me.
Amalia! W... Just wait.
That was a disaster.
Embarrassing.
Tell you what, though.
All this focus on the Galanthi.
There's no one out there anymore
doing what Mrs. True and Lucy used to.
Looking out for the likes of us.
Lord knows there's more.
Don't envy them today.
Strange place to meet.
Me and me brother used to come down here
when we was scuppers.
Dig around. You find all sorts.
I never knew you had a family.
What, did you think
I just washed up here one day.
Perhaps, they...
they grew me at a workhouse.
To what do I owe the summoning, Frank?
That woman.
Effie Boyle, that journalist, remember?
You was in the station.
She was there.
You was laughing together, whispering.
Were you jealous?
Did you know her?
Had you met her before?
- No.
- What did she say to you?
What did she say? Let me see.
She said that she thought
you were wasted in your job.
- She never said that.
- She said that
the longer you spend on that
rotten police force of yours,
the further you are
from ever being the man
- you're meant to be in.
- Hm.
What kind of man is that then?
You know, the thing about you, Swann...
- I sense that you're going to tell me.
- Yeah.
The thing about you
is you got it all.
The blue bloods, the money, the parties,
and you wear it well.
But I think, underneath...
you despise it.
I don't think you want none of it.
And I suppose...
you're going to tell me
what it is that I want?
No.
Now that, I cannot claim to know.
Hold up.
Here we go!
Eh?
Look at that.
Will that get me into
your posh little club, will it?
Get me some of that charm?
Hm?
What did she say to you?
She told me to keep an eye on you.
Whether you like it or not.
Everybody needs a friend, Frank!
Ah! Ah!
Ordinarily,
a guest waits for an invitation
before paying a visit.
Well, perhaps you should
tell that to Mrs. Amalia True.
After all, I didn't invite her
to our little excavation site, did you?
- And yet, down she came all the same.
- Mrs. True?
- What was she doing there?
- Talking to the creature, apparently.
Decapitating a few of my guards.
But mainly communicating.
I think she upset it.
All these earthquakes.
You think the monster is
responsible for the tremors?
Is there any way that she could
have discovered my involvement?
Anything in the cave? Think!
You know, it's been raised before,
but I question Mrs. True's credentials.
She doesn't seem like a baker to me.
And I'm beginning to wonder
if your two little projects
may no longer be quite, uh, compatible.
Rehabilitation has always been designed
to go hand-in-hand with a cure.
But what if society were to find out
about our side line?
Our little cerebral...
forays?
Medical breakthroughs have
always required human trials.
I will take care of Amalia True.
And when the creature
is dead, she and her kind
will all be released from
their purgatorial affliction.
Well, truthfully, if it's
even taken form in there,
we don't know quite what effect
killing the creature might have.
Our doubts are traitors, are they not?
But...
with you beside me,
Lavinia,
I find I am...
resolve itself.
- Much further to the clockmaker?
- Not far.
I didn't mean all that.
The cave, you know?
You are allowed to make
your own choices.
I just thought if I could
find the Galanthi,
then it might... it might...
show me...
tell me...
Turns out, the thought of
wearing one of these things,
it's a lot more frightening
than going off to face
the might of Her Majesty's armed forces.
W-would you... Would you do the honors?
You know it's not the best day
to be wearing one of those things.
Doesn't matter.
What's wrong?
S-Sorry. It's, um...
uh, the-the-the birds today.
They keep losing their direction.
Because of the tremors?
Doesn't the book tell us the witchcraft
and powers, all these
are an affront to God!
And has He ever shown London
such signs of His displeasure?
Cracking the very earth
on which we stand!
See? Trouble.
- We shouldn't stay.
- Filling the streets
with fire and blood!
- And what about you, brothers and sisters?
- Thank you very much.
- Will you not answer His call?
- We will!
- Will you not waken to His alarms?
- Yeah, we will!
Will you not rise, London?
Look!
There's one!
- Yeah!
- Hey! There he is!
A fucking witch!
We're going to go.
This way. We're going...
You've got a reckoning coming!
This is the piece we found.
- Hm...
- You recognize it?
It is a casing from one
of our carriage clocks.
That is a number in the mark.
We will find the buyer for you.
Too much trouble with these men.
They say the city belongs to them.
None of the Touched can stay
in Chinatown anymore.
Someone is giving
the Purists our names...
... and addresses.
Amalia?
She's found the address.
She's Touched!
- Catch the witch!
- Come on!
Is she Italian? What's she saying?
She's not Italian. She's Touched.
Speak again.
Go on.
I said speak!
Freak.
Oi!
Bessie!
My friend said it's 'cause
you're cursed by God.
The Touched.
But I know. I've seen.
It's you that is the curse on us!
And you take and you take,
and you turn everything bad!
Come on.
Come on, girl. Come on.
Myrtle...
Myrtle! Go on! Run!
You hearing me? Run!
- What are you doing here?
- It's you, you bullocks!
You fucking blinded me.
You kicked me in the unmentionables!
A vagina is not unmentionable, Penance!
We've been through this before!
- Fuck.
- Mm...
Oh...
Mrs. True.
Ms. Adair.
How did you get here
without the address?
Does it matter?
Hm.
Jimmy.
Dr. Hague.
Darling.
- Who is this?
You're calling to speak to...
That accent's liable to slip.
Am I wrong in saying... Canadian?
Originally.
Ah. Then, let me ask...
Did you ever stop believing
this was all a sim?
- You're the Stripe.
- Who the fuck are you?
My dear, did you think
you were the only one
who hitched a ride?
Hello?
Amalia!
Ah...
Ah!
Aaah!
Amalia!
Amalia?
Give ear, O Lord, unto my prayer.
In the day of my trouble, I will
call upon You for Thou wilt...
No.
No, not the praying, please.
See? They're going to stop.
I'm losing my fucking mind.
I'm breaking up into little pieces.
What if the Galanthi comes out
and I just disappear?
Zephyr Alexis Navine, you listen to me.
Right now, we have a name to our enemy.
We have a strange old lady
from the future on the other end
of a telephone line. We have
an alien under threat.
We have a mission to save
the bleeding world,
so I will not hear one more word
from you about disappearing
or breaking up or giving up.
Do you understand me, soldier?
Get on your fucking feet
and get back to work.
Oh, hello.
No use struggling.
Toodle-oo.
Bess.
No.
What they done...
We can't let it stand.
♪ La la la... ♪
- Mother?
- ♪ La la la... ♪
♪ La la la... ♪
La!
- Synced and corrected by Firefly -
- www.addic7ed.com -